# Learning to Learn Languages

## Types and typing. 

Is the language strongly or weakly typed, and is typing static or (as in Ruby and JavaScript) dynamic?

## Primitives. 

What are primitive types (numbers, strings, collections, and so on)? 
What are the rules or conventions for naming things (variables, functions, classes, namespaces, and so on)? 
What are the basic mechanisms for variable assignment, variable scope, and control flow? 
What are the basic ways in which strings are manipulated, including the use of regular expressions and string interpolation?

## Methods. 

How are methods (functions, procedures) defined and called? 
How are they named? 
How are class (static) methods differentiated from instance methods?

## Abstraction and Encapsulation. 

How are classes defined, subclassed, and composed?
What are the mechanics of specifying instance methods and variables, class (static) methods and variables, interfaces, and so on?

## Idioms. 

What idioms differentiate the language from others you probably know, and how are they used? 
Prominent examples in Ruby include symbols (akin to immutable strings), blocks (also known as anonymous lambdas or closures, and heavily used in Ruby to implement iterators), and functional-programming idioms for operating on collections.

## Libraries. 

What facilities does the language have for managing libraries? 
How are libraries and the functions available in them named, imported, and used? 
What tools for package management (also called dependency management) are available to ensure that an application can be reproducibly deployed by other developers or on production systems with the correct versions of all the libraries on which it depends? We return to this topic in Chapter 12.

## Debugging. 

What debugging tools are available? 
Can you drop into an interactive debugger from a running program? 
Can you set breakpoints or watchpoints (datavalue- based breakpoints) to stop a running program and inspect or modify its state?
Is there easy access to an interactive console, read-eval-print loop (REPL), or other mechanism to try out short bits of code interactively?

## Testing. 

How do you create and run automated tests? We will introduce the topic here but we will have much more to say about it in Chapter 8.

